---
title: Service Mode
---

# Service Mode


**Service Mode** is an important part of a pinball machine that provides
an interface that allows the user to perform a number of important
operations to their machine. MPF provides a comprehensive base set of
service mode features, that can be extended if required.

The structure of the built-in Service Mode is as follows:

![image](images/serice_mode_menu_map.png)

## Utilities

MPF provides a **Reset** function that allows you to provide a set of
standard functions to the user to reset certain elements of the game,
such as High Scores, Audits and Earnings. This menu option is available
from the `service_menu_selected` event with the label `Utilities Menu`.

Utilities has the following sub menus:

### Coin Audits

Resets all counters for earnings data. All counters will be reset to
zero in `earnings.yaml` in the `/data` subfolder of your game.

### Factory Reset

Resets the value of all of your machine variables in your
`machine_vars.yaml` file in the `/data` subfolder of your game to the
`initial_value` if the `persist: true` setting is configured for that
variable.

### Credits

Resets the value of the `credit_units` machine variable in your
`machine_vars.yaml` file in the `/data` subfolder of your game to zero.

### High Scores (HSTD)

Resets all values for game scores that are being monitored as configured
in the `categories:` section of your `high_score.yaml` mode
configuration. All scores stored in the `high_scores.yaml` file in the
`/data` subfolder of your game will be reset to teh `defaults:` section
of your `high_score.yaml` mode configuration.

### Game Audits

Resets all counters for game elements that are being audited as
configured in the `auditor:` section of your game configuration. All
counters will be reset to zero in `audits.yaml` in the `/data` subfolder
of your game.

## Adjustments

MPF provides an **Adjustments** function that presents all of your
configured game variables in the `Settings` section to the user to
modify certain elements of the game. This menu option is available from
the `service_menu_selected` event with the label `Adjustments Menu`.

## Audits

(To be completed)

## Diagnostics

MPF provides a **Diagnostics** function that allows the user to test
hardware elements of the game such as switches, lights and coils. This
menu option is available from the `service_menu_selected` event with the
label `Diagnostics Menu`.

## Related Pages:

* [service API Reference](../code/api_reference/core/service.md)
* [service_mode API Reference](../code/api_reference/modes/service.md)
* [Game Logic: Service Mode](../game_logic/service_mode.md)
